# Medgar Evers College
## Tech Talent Pipeline Residency (2024 Winter)

2024-01-03

---

# What are we learning?

- foundations of python
- how to ace a coding interview

---

# Who are the instructional staff?

- teachers
- teaching assistants

---

# Who are the students?

- what is your ...
  - favorite movie?
  - favorite video game?
  - favorite NYC borough?
  - favorite sports team?
  - favorite food?
  - favorite technology or branch of computer science?

---

# What is a flipped classroom?

- theory at home; practice in the classroom
  - watch videos at home
  - do short readings and problems in class

---

# Where are we starting?

- pre assessment
- no pressure; just establishing a baseline
- 2 programming problems
- 1 mock coding interview

---

# Coding Problem Rubric

| requirement                  | points |
|------------------------------|--------|
| solves the problem           | 3      |
| includes meaningful comments | 2      |
| compiles and runs            | 1      |
| written in python            | 1      |

---

# Mock Coding Interview Rubric

| requirement                             | points |
|-----------------------------------------|--------|
| communicates thought process            | 3      |
| produces meaningful code / pseudocode   | 2      |
| asks questions where needed             | 1      |

---

# Coding Problem 1

Write a program that declares and initializes a list (array) of 10 numbers. Use randomly generated numbers such that the list is different every time the program is run. Then, create a new list and fill it with the same items as the first list but in reverse order.

# Coding Problem 2

Write a program that asks the user to type in a palindrome. Determine if what the user has typed in is a palindrome and print a message stating whether they are correct or not. You can assume that the user will only use lowercase letters and will not include any punctuation.

A palindrome is any word or sentence that is the same when it is reversed.

---

# Code Submission

- [submit here](https://airtable.com/app0PN2SzDnP1Qnzi/pagSq9DANTcpHzDU6/form)

---

# Mock Coding Interview Problem

The problem is to count all the possible paths from top left to bottom right of an MxN matrix with the constraints that from each cell you can either move to right or down.

Return answer modulo 109+7.

Example 1:

Input:
M = 3 and N = 3
Output: 6
Explanation:
Let the given input 3*3 matrix is filled 
as such:
A B C
D E F
G H I
The possible paths which exists to reach 
'I' from 'A' following above conditions 
are as follows:ABCFI, ABEHI, ADGHI, ADEFI, 
ADEHI, ABEFI
Example 2:

Input:
M = 1 and N = 4
Output: 1
Explanation:
There is only one direction to go in,
and thus, there is only one path possible.
Your Task
You don't need to read input or print anything. Your task is to complete the function numberOfPaths() which takes the integer M and integer N as input parameters and returns an integer, the number of paths.

Expected Time Complexity: O(M)
Expected Space Complexity: O(1)

Constraints:
1 ≤ N ≤ 108
1 ≤ M ≤ 105

---

# Resources

- [Runestone Academy](https://runestone.academy/runestone/default/user/register)
- please register with code `mec_2024_winter_bootcamp`

---

# Let's Begin!
