# Medgar Evers College
## Tech Talent Pipeline Residency (2024 Winter)

2024-01-16

---

# Agenda

- Solo work on Runestone Academy
  - remember: there's a new video to watch!
  - instructional staff will review your preassessment work on individual basis
- Coding Interview Practice
  - will add `R`esult

---

# STARR

- `S`ituation
  - rephrase the problem
  - give your own examples
  - ASK QUESTIONS
- `T`ask
  - give a high level view of how you'd solve it
  - don't be afraid to use jargon
- `A`ction
  - write actual code
  - usually don't have IDE so don't worry about syntax errors
  - might be psuedocode, might be code agnostic
  
---

# Result

- the next step is `R`esult
- does your code solve the problem?
  - maybe interviewer stops you midway
- does your code address edge cases?
  - eg empty strings, negative numbers, etc
- does your code meet constraints?
  - space complexity, time complexity

---

# If you are stuck

- main point of coding interview is to demonstrate `thought process`, not coding ability
- usually doesn't matter if you don't complete the problem
- if you are stuck, solve as much of it as you can
- in the `R`esult phase, you can address anything you weren't able to get to
  - knowing what doesn't work is also valuable!

---

# Space Complexity Rule of Thumb

- `space complexity` is how much memory your solution takes relative to the inputs
- are you creating new arrays to solve your problem?
- is the the size of the new array relative to your inputs?
- if so, your space complexity is probably greater than `O(1)`, which can sometimes be bad
- if not, your space complexity is probably `O(1)`, which is the best case

---

# Time Complexity Rule of Thumb

- `time complexity` is how much computing time your solution takes relative to the inputs
- do you have a for loop with no nested loops?
  - your time complexity is probably `O(n)` which is usually fine
- do you have nested for loops?
  - your time complexity is probably greater than `O(n)`, which is sometimes bad but sometimes unavoidable
- do you make other function calls, dependent on the size of the inputs?
  - your time complexity is probably greater than `O(n)`

---

# Space and Time Complexity

- lower space and time complexities are better
- sometimes not possible to get lower
- sometimes interviewer is not looking at complexity
- still, mentioning it will definitely be a plus!

---

# Live Example

---

# Breakout Groups
