# Week 3 Day 1
## June 24, 2024

---

# Morning
- Review
- Goal Setting
- If you have **not started** DataCamp `Understanding Data Science` module, please start it.
- Otherwise, please begin / continue DataCamp: `Data Manipulation with pandas`
- If you have finished that, talk with an instructor or TA

## Afternoon

- [Survey](https://forms.office.com/r/ti47raaa4L)
- Continue work on DataCamp
- Team Activity: Question the World

---

## Question the World

### Purpose

To practice finding and evaluating datasets.

### Task

1. Break up into pairs
2. Open the [Running Review and Goals Doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Xnhoqo-WBjVMTe1tNLp5LZ_oFVPR9_QYYZiaXKdiR88/edit?usp=sharing)
3. Under the section marked **Question the World**, write your name and your team member's name in the first column (`The Questioners`)
4. Brainstorm 3 questions that you have about the world that might be able to be answered by data science and write them in the second column. Some examples of these questions are:
   1. Do New Yorkers really walk faster than people from other cities?
   2. Is Elden Ring really that difficult compared to other games (now or in the past)?
   3. If I wanted to open up a food truck, which cuisine should it be and what city should I start it in if I want to make a lot of money fast?
5. Your team will be assigned the questions from another team; your names will be in the third column as `The Researchers`
6. Pick **only one** of the questions proposed that you think can best be answered by data science.
7. Search for good datasets that could be used. Remember what makes a good dataset?
   1. there might not be a good dataset out there! in that case, write down all the datasets you looked through and make note of why they are not suitable.
8. Finally, we will quickly do a standup and have `The Researchers` share their findings with `The Questioners`